# Real_World_Data_Wrangling

## Requirements
requests
pandas
pandas > json_normalize
numpy
matplotlib.pyplot
matplotlib.dates
json
seaborn

## Datasets

### Crash Dataset

**Dataset variables:**

    COLLISION_ID: Unique record code generated by system
    CRASH_DATE: Occurrence date of collision
    CRASH_TIME: Occurrence time of collision
    BOROUGH: Borough where collision occurred
    ZIP CODE: Postal code of incident occurrence
    LATITUDE: Latitude coordinate for Global Coordinate System, WGS 1984, decimal degrees (EPSG 4326)
    LONGITUDE: Longitude coordinate for Global Coordinate System, WGS 1984, decimal degrees (EPSG 4326)
    LOCATION: Latitude , Longitude pair
    ON STREET NAME: Street on which the collision occurred
    CROSS STREET NAME: Nearest cross street to the collision
    OFF STREET NAME: Street address if known
    NUMBER OF PERSONS INJURED: Number of persons injured
    NUMBER OF PERSONS KILLED: Number of persons killed
    NUMBER OF PEDESTRIANS INJURED: Number of pedestrians injured
    NUMBER OF PEDESTRIANS KILLED: Number of pedestrians killed
    NUMBER OF CYCLIST INJURED: Number of cyclists injured
    NUMBER OF CYCLIST KILLED: Number of cyclists killed
    NUMBER OF MOTORIST INJURED: Number of vehicle occupants injured
    NUMBER OF MOTORIST KILLED: Number of vehicle occupants killed
    CONTRIBUTING FACTOR VEHICLE 1: Factors contributing to the collision for designated vehicle
    CONTRIBUTING FACTOR VEHICLE 2: Factors contributing to the collision for designated vehicle
    CONTRIBUTING FACTOR VEHICLE 3: Factors contributing to the collision for designated vehicle
    CONTRIBUTING FACTOR VEHICLE 4: Factors contributing to the collision for designated vehicle
    CONTRIBUTING FACTOR VEHICLE 5: Factors contributing to the collision for designated vehicle
    VEHICLE TYPE CODE 1: Type of vehicle based on the selected vehicle category (ATV, bicycle, car/suv, ebike, escooter, truck/bus, motorcycle, other)
    VEHICLE TYPE CODE 2: Type of vehicle based on the selected vehicle category (ATV, bicycle, car/suv, ebike, escooter, truck/bus, motorcycle, other)
    VEHICLE TYPE CODE 3: Type of vehicle based on the selected vehicle category (ATV, bicycle, car/suv, ebike, escooter, truck/bus, motorcycle, other)
    VEHICLE TYPE CODE 4: Type of vehicle based on the selected vehicle category (ATV, bicycle, car/suv, ebike, escooter, truck/bus, motorcycle, other)
    VEHICLE TYPE CODE 5: Type of vehicle based on the selected vehicle category (ATV, bicycle, car/suv, ebike, escooter, truck/bus, motorcycle, other)

### Taxicab Dataset

Dataset variables:

    VendorID - A code indicating the TPEP provider that provided the record.
    tpep_pickup_datetime - The date and time when the meter was engaged.
    tpep_dropoff_datetime - The date and time when the meter was disengaged.
    passenger_count - The number of passengers in the vehicle.
    trip_distance - The elapsed trip distance in miles reported by the taximeter.
    RatecodeID - The final rate code in effect at the end of the trip.
    store_and_fwd_flag - This flag indicates whether the trip record was held in vehicle memory before sending to the vendor, aka “store and forward,” because the vehicle did not have a connection to the server.
    PULocationID - TLC Taxi Zone in which the taximeter was engaged
    DOLocationID - TLC Taxi Zone in which the taximeter was disengaged
    payment_type - A numeric code signifying how the passenger paid for the trip.
    fare_amount - The time-and-distance fare calculated by the meter.
    extra Miscellaneous extras and surcharges.
    mta_tax - Tax that is automatically triggered based on the metered rate in use.
    tip_amount - Tip amount – This field is automatically populated for credit card tips. Cash tips are not included.
    tolls_amount - Total amount of all tolls paid in trip.
    improvement_surcharge - Improvement surcharge assessed trips at the flag drop.
    total_amount - The total amount charged to passengers. Does not include cash tips.
    congestion_surcharge - Total amount collected in trip for NYS congestion surcharge.
    airport_fee - For pick up only at LaGuardia and John F. Kennedy Airports.

## Functions Defined

get_request(item):
    Accepts an api url and returns a dataframe object.


## Project Function

The project goes through the Data Wrangling phases, first gathering the data and viewing basic information about each dataset. After which, we assess the data and list quality and tidiness issues. Then we clean the data and address the individual issues outlined. After that, we update our datastore and answer the research questions.
